We must be able to communicate
in a very attractive, direct, concise
way that will generate interest
in our project in many different
circumstances.
You have already learned how to
prepare the pitch deck, the presentation,
and knowing the structure
of the presentation is helping
you to better structure the
ideas in your head.
But we also have to create a more
synthesized version, which is
what we call the elevator pitch.
The elevator pitch is used
on different occasions.
You will use it permanently, in
a personal way, every day.
So someone new comes to the
office, you meet a supplier, you
talk to a customer, you know
someone or you have a job interview
with someone you want to
file, you know a potential
investor, on a dinner you present
someone new and ask what
you do, in thousands of
occasions.
You have to have the ideas very
well structured in your head to
be able to transmit in 30 seconds
what you do, to whom, what
you contribute, etc.
The elevator pitch
will be used in writing.
You will find yourself writing a
lot of emails in which you
have to explain to someone who has
no reason to know your company
what you do.
We receive many requests from
many projects and the difference between,
no matter how you get a paragraph, the
difference between that that paragraph
is well explained, that you
understand quickly what the project consists
of, that you do not understand it,
is vital, is between generating interest
and not generating it.
So we have to work on this.
I'll give you a tip before you get
into the script and it's that
you use a language as simple
as possible.
I'm thinking of many of the elevator
pitch that have made us come
and actually use very technical,
very sophisticated
words, etc.
In the end, you don't understand anything.
I think we all think that when we read
something or when someone speaks
to us in a language we don't
understand, that generates rejection.
Therefore, do not use words,
do not use technicisms, do not
give for granted that your
interlocutor understands if
you are talking about
technology you know.
All that generates rejection, you
have to speak very clearly and
very naturally, as if you tell your
mother, your father or a friend.
Don't sophisticate things because you don't
earn anything by doing it.
Another advice I'm going to give
you is to practice it because in
many cases entrepreneurs don't
practice elevator pitch and
think it will come out
naturally.
But I'm sure that if we do the
test and put them in front of them
in different circumstances, they
tell it in one way.
This can't be, it doesn't take much
effort but it's convenient that
we prepare our elevator pitch
structure and practice it.
How is the elevator pitch
created?
You already know the structure
or script of the main sections that
the pitch deck has to have or
that the pitch has to have.
We need to make a synthesis.
Remember that the main sections
are problems, solution, opportunity,
market size, equipment,
business model,
etc.
You will have the opportunity to
include more or less information depending
on the interlocutor, depending
on the situation you are
in, etc.
There is really no single scheme,
but what you have to do
is work it first.
And what I'm going to do is share
with you and you can download a series
of templates, of structures that
you can use that will help you
create your own.
You can also pick up parts of
one template and parts of another.
Depending on how you want to communicate.
But basically what we need to
do is, of all the pitch sections,
what we have to do is identify
the most important ones.
The most important is the problem
and the solution.
That is, what problem exists,
who has that problem and what is
our solution and what benefit
we will generate.
To create Elevator Pitch, what
we have to do is a synthesized
version of the pitch.
What happens is that it helps a lot
to have templates or models on which
to start.
And that's why what we've done is
that we've shared a few with you.
You can choose the one you like
most or you can adapt one.
This is the simplest of all.
Problems, solutions and benefits.
I would like to give you the example of PowerMJ.
There are millions of people in
the world who would like to have
more knowledge about business,
strategy, etc.
That is why we have created a very efficient
and very affordable program.
It helps our students grow
professionally.
As you can see, it is a problem, a solution and a benefit.
I have left you many more or several more.
Your company name, the product
description, for whom, what
problem it solves and what
is the benefit.
Or one very similar, but that instead
of ending the profit what you end
up with is your competitive
advantage or your differential factor.
There are some longer.
I am, COD, what we offer, for whom,
what allows them, with what benefit.
And here what we do
is, unlike who our competitors
are, we offer, etc.
As you can see, it is a matter of adapting.
As the elevator pitch you will
use in different circumstances,
in some cases you will have
more time, what you can also
do is incorporate more information
in the event that you can
do so.
Information about the opportunity
or who the team is made up of,
what your vision is, or the
milestones or what you have demonstrated.
I leave you also a longer one, in this
case it is in English, which would
be almost like the complete one in which
you are incorporating almost all the
information from the pitch.